So, many people think JavaScript is a bad language and that we only need it because it's built into all
browsers.
Let's call these people ... I dunno ...
(loud buzzer)
WRONG! JavaScript is an awesome language, and you literally have tech companies, giant tech companies all
around the world spending millions of dollars to create very fast JavaScript interpreters.
And what that means is that we can have fast JavaScript runtime environments.
What's really cool is that now you can use JavaScript on the back-end,
Okay. Up until about 10 years ago, JavaScript was very much predominantly just a frontend language.
And then new web development techniques called AJAX came along and AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript And
XML.
And in a nutshell, all that AJAX is, is it's using JavaScript in the backend via a markup language called XML
to make a web page more responsive.
What do I mean by responsive?
Well, think about loading new content on a web page, but without making that refresh.
Examples?
Think about Gmail and how it loads your emails or think about Twitter, how it loads new tweets.
It's very responsive and very quick.
And get this. This extra added functionality started to make JavaScript (explosive sound) explode. In the past few years,
we've seen an insane development in JavaScript.
INSANE. The JavaScript
JSON file format is pretty much used now to transfer data all over the web. Node.js, which is a backend
JavaScript server, can now be used to create servers.
You've got JavaScript libraries like mastache and handlebars that can create JavaScript templates
in a very easy and intuitive way.
You've got frameworks like Ember, Angular,
Backbone, etc.
All of these frameworks are used to create thousands of crazy interactive websites. And these frameworks,
this language, this JavaScript language, has literally
pushed the limits of JavaScript
way beyond what anyone thought was possible.
Let's just put all of this aside for the moment.
JavaScript is powerful, but it can be difficult to learn. It can be difficult to learn any programming language
if you've had no experience before.
But the good news is that a lot of these languages all have the same logic. Loops, tables, arrays,
functions, scopes, execution context ...
they all kind of have similar terminology.
And once you get it for one language, it makes learning another language just so much easier.
And JavaScript, because it's so powerful, is an awesome first language to begin with.
So this section is a crash course in JavaScript.
It's kind of just setting your mind right into understanding how HTML, CSS and JavaScript fit in with each other.
We are going to get into coding in this course. We're going to get into a lot of coding, but you do
need to understand the fundamentals first and trust me, it makes coding more fun.
It makes it more intuitive.
You know, I hate, for me personally, I hate just rote learning, you know, learning how to, you know, just
memorizing words.
I need to understand. I need to understand what's going on in the background, and it'll make you much better programmer
and it'll make your life of programming a lot more fun.
So that's what this section is about. It's just setting the mood.
Enjoy, sit back and just try and soak in and understand how JavaScript fits in. Enjoy.